https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JSQhRyTKnW4
The Ultimate Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) Tutorial
https://www.novelbits.io/introduction-to-bluetooth-low-energy-book/

Important facts about BLE:
1. Low Power Consumption
2. Operates in ISM Band (2.4 GHz) (Industrial, Scientific and Medical)
3. Radio Spectrum split into 40 Channels (3 primary Advertisement channels, 37 are used for secondary advertisement data, as for data transfer during connection)

Properties of BLE
1.  Range: It depends on configuration, from few meters up to 1 km. The specific mode that allowes you to achieve over 1 km in 
    range utilizes a method for data recovery called forward Error Correction (FEC)
    Taj metod Forward Error Correction povecava domet bez potrebe da se povecava prenosna moc, tj potrosnja. 
2.  Power Consumption, BLE uspeva da ima malu potrosnju time sto iskljucuje radio koliko je to moguce. 
     U sustini pali ga samo da posalje i primi podatke, a onda ide u sleep do sledeceg slanja ili primanja.
3.  Data Throughput - Highest data for the radio is 2Mbit mode (2M PHY Mode), so the acctual date is even lower because of the overhead
    So for application data rateis up to 1.4 Mbps Data rate
4.  Adaptive Frequency Hopping - ovo omogucava BLE uredjajima da dinamicki izbegnu intereferenciju i sudaranje sa drugim BLE uredjajima u 2.4MHz spekru 
    


Four most important concepts in BLE
1. Pheripherals & Central
2. Advertising & Scanning
3. Connections
4. Characteristics & Services

1. Pheripherals & Central
Pheripherals is a device that sends out advertisement data for other devices to discover it. Whether that to connect data or just to read it's advertisement data.
Central, on the other hand, is device that discovers these advertisement packets and it could in some case if the adertisement packet allows it to connect to that device.

Note: One very popular usecase of the bluetoothe devices that advertise and do not allow conection is in bluetooth beacons. 
These are used in retail marketing, indoor navigation and many other applications

Central is the device that takes on the heavy lifting in terms of controlling the timing and the pharameters of the BLE connection. Consumes more power. 
BLE nezavisno od toga koja mu je uloga (centra ilil peripheral) moze biti konektovan sa vise uredjaja. 
Ovo znaci da central moze biti povezan sa vise peripherals, ili da peripherals moze imati konekciju ka mnogobrojim centrals. 
Dok postoje uredjaji, npr smtrfoni, koji mogu imati konekciju sa obe vrste uredjaja u isto vreme (cetrals and peripherals). 


Advertising and Scanning
Kada periferija posalje podatke koji se nazivaju "advertisement packets", za druge uredjaje da ga otkriju. 
Ovo znaci da da vodi ka konekciji ili moze biti obicno otkrivanje uredjaja i citanja nekih Advertisement podataka. 




https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1I1vxu5qIUM
